This lesson will cover how to
compare the contents of files.
If you want to compare two files and
display the differences,
you can use the diff command.
The Sdiff command or vimdiff.
The diff command will display
the differences between two files.
While the sdiff command will display
the differences with file1 on the left and
file2 on the right.
Vimdiff will use the vim editor to display
the differences between two files.
Here's just the first line
of output produced by diff.
The first number represents line
numbers from the first file and
the second number represents line
numbers from the second file.
The middle character separating
the line numbers will either be a C,
which represents a change, D,
which represents a deletion, or
an A which represents an addition.
In this example the third line
of the first file is changed or
different than the third
line in the second file.
This is an example of an entire
output from the diff command.
The output that follows the less
than sign belongs to the first file.
The text following the greater than
sign belongs to the second file.
The three dashes are just a separator.
In the sdiff output, the pipe or
vertical bar character means that the text
differs in the files on that line.
You may also see the less than sign,
which means that the line only
exists in the first file.
The greater than sign means that
line only exists in the second file.
When you run vimdiff, both files will
be pulled up in separate windows.
To switch between the windows,
type CTL+WW.
To close the current file in
the current window, type :q, Enter.
If you want to close both files
at once and quit, type :qa, and
if you've made some changes that you
don't want to save you can type :qa!
Enter.
We'll use the -n option for
the cat command to display line numbers.
Let's use the diff command to look at
the differences between those two files.
You'll notice that the line that begins
with the less than symbol belongs
to the first file,
while the line with the greater than
symbol belongs to the second file.
You'll also notice the first
line of diff output says 4c4.
That means the fourth line of
the first file is changed or
different than the fourth
line of the second file.
Let's use sdiff.
And you can see that it places the files
side by side, and the vertical bar, or
the pipe symbol,
displays the line that has a difference.
Let's add a new last line to this file.
We'll append it.
And we'll run sdiff again.
And this time you can see that
the less than sign represents that
there's a line in the first file
that is not in the second file.
We'll use vimdiff.
You can see that vim is highlighting
the differences between the files.
We can use CTL+WW to move between windows.
And if you wanna close one window,
q, :q to close the other window.
Let's do that again and
we'll close both of them at the same time.
You can look at the differences and
:qa Enter to exit vimdiff.
In this lesson we covered the diff command
which displays the differences between two
files, the sdiff command which
does the same thing except for
it displays the differences
side-by-side and
the vimdiff command which displays
differences in the vim editor.